urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0007.tlg012.fuPerrin:6#These were not the only advantages Pericles had of his association with Anaxagoras.
It appears that he was also lifted by him above superstition, that feeling which is
produced by amazement at what happens in regions above us. It affects those who are
ignorant of the causes of such things, and are crazed about divine intervention, and
confounded through their inexperience in this domain; whereas the doctrines of natural
philosophy remove such ignorance and inexperience, and substitute for timorous and
inflamed superstition that unshaken reverence which is attended by a good hope. A story is told that once on a time the head of a one-horned ram was brought to
Pericles from his country-place, and that Lampon the seer, when he saw how the horn
grew strong and solid from the middle of the forehead, declared that, whereas there
were two powerful parties in the city, that of Thucydides and that of Pericles,
the mastery would finally devolve upon one man, — the man to whom this sign had
been given. Anaxagoras, however, had the skull cut in two, and showed that the brain
had not filled out its position, but had drawn together to a point, like an egg, at that
particular spot in the entire cavity where the root of the horn began. At that time, the
story says, it was Anaxagoras who won the plaudits of the bystanders; but a little while after
it was Lampon, for Thucydides was overthrown, and Pericles was entrusted with the entire
control of all the interests of the people. Now there was nothing, in my opinion, to prevent both of them, the naturalist and the
seer, from being in the right of the matter; the one correctly divined the cause, the
other the object or purpose. It was the proper province of the one to observe why anything
happens, and how it comes to be what it is; of the other to declare for what purpose
anything happens, and what it means. And those who declare that the discovery of the cause,
in any phenomenon, does away with the meaning, do not perceive that they are doing away not
only with divine portents, but also with artificial tokens, such as the ringing of gongs, the
language of fire-signals, and the shadows of the pointers on sundials. Each of these has been
made, through some casual adaptation, to have some meaning. However, perhaps this is a matter
for a different treatise.
