urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0007.tlg012.fuPerrin:27#Pericles quickly returned home to help his people from the disaster that occurred. He soon defeated Melissus and walled their city in to gain the upper hand for the safety of his people in the future. Due to the long and tedious process, Pericles people began to be impatient and wanted to go and fight. Not being able to restrain them from wanting to go and fight, Pericles decided to separate the Athenians force into eight divisions. To be fair, Pericles decided to draw lots and whoever got the white bean was allowed to feast and rest. The other seven groups who did not draw the white bean were sent off to do all the fighting while the others rested. I did learn that the meaning behind “white day” is originated from the white bean, which means to have a fun time/day. 

Plutarch went on to mentioned how Pericles used siege-engines, in which I am not familiar with. Once I Googled “siege engines” it came up to be “a device that is designed to break or circumvent city walls and other fortifications in siege warfare.”Plutarch discussed Artemon, who was an engineer who worked under Pericles. Artemon was unable to walk and had to be carried around on a stretcher by the other men. Plutarch proceeds to discuss Heracleides Ponticus, who was a Greek philosopher, disagreement with the story of Artemon Periphoretus that dates back before the Samian war. Heracleides Ponticus stated that Artemon actually lived a very lavish lifestyle during his lifetime and was very cautious of surroundings. He reached a level of anxiety that made him want to stay in the comfort of his home for the most of his life. While he spent most of his time at home, Heracleides Ponticus also had two servants who held a bronze shield over his head with fear and anxiety of something might fall on his head. Whenever Ponticus was required or decided to travel, he was carried around in a hammock that sunk just above the surface of the ground. Due to the low range of the hammock, he took the name of Periphoretus.
