urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0007.tlg012.fuDryden:1#Caesar once, seeing some wealthy strangers at Rome, carrying up and down with them in their arms and bosoms young puppy-dogs and monkeys,embracing and making much of them, took occasion not unnaturally to 
ask whether the women in their country were not used to bear children 
by that prince-like reprimand gravely reflecting upon persons who spend 
and lavish upon brute beasts that affection and kindness which nature has 
implanted in us to be bestowed on those of our own kind. With like reason 
may we blame those who misuse that love of inquiry and observation which 
nature has implanted in our souls, by expending it on objects unworthy 
of the attention either of their eyes or their ears, while they disregard such 
as are excellent in themselves, and would do them good. The mere outward sense, being passive in responding to the impression of the objects that come m its way and strike upon it, perhaps cannot help entertaining and taking notice of everything that addresses it, be it what it will, useful or unuseful, but, in the exercise of his mental perception, 
every man, if he chooses, has a natural power to turn himself upon all 
occasions, and to change and shift with the greatest ease to what he shall 
himself judge desirable. So that it becomes a man’s duty to pursue and 
make after the best and choicest of everything, that he may not only employ his contemplation, but may also be improved by it. For as that 
color is more suitable to the eye whose freshness and pleasantness stimulates and strengthens the sight, so a man ought to apply his intellectual 
perception to such objects as, with the sense of delight, are apt to call it 
forth, and allure it to its own proper good and advantage.
Such objects we find in the acts of virtue, which also produce in the 
minds of mere readers about them an emulation and eagerness that may 
lead them on to imitation. In other things there does not immediately 
follow upon the admiration and liking of the thing done any strong desire of doing the like. Nay, many times, on the very contrary, when we are 
pleased with the work, we slight and set little by the workman or artist 
himself, as, for instance, in perfumes and purple dyes we are taken with 
the things themselves well enough, but do not think dyers and perfumers 
otherwise than low and sordid people. It was not said amiss by Antisthenes, 
when people told him that one Ismenias was an excellent piper. “It may be 
so,” said he, “but he is but a wretched human being, otherwise he would 
not have been an excellent piper.” And King Philip, to the same purpose, 
told his son Alexander, who once at a merry-meeting played a piece of 
music charmingly and skillfully, “Are you not ashamed, son, to play so 
well?” For it is enough for a king or prince to find leisure sometimes to 
hear others sing, and he does the muses quite honor enough when he 
pleases to be but present, while others engage in such exercises and trials 
of skill. 