urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0007.tlg012.fuDryden:15#The discussion about the virgins T
heseus took with him around the time of the feast Oschophoria continued.
Theseus had strict requirements for the women who was chosen and that included
young age, womanish faces, manly spirit, frequent baths, and even staying away
from the sun rays of heat. Even with the constant use of all the ointments,
baths, and dresses that served them, there was still work to be done for them to
reach Theseus approval.The women had to also learn how to change their voice and
walk differently so you would not be able to tell them apart. Theseus then went
on to put the Athenian maids designed for Crete. Once he returned, Theseus and
the women led up a solemn procession. It was similar to the habit that is now
worn by those who carry the vine branches. The branches were to be carried in
honor of Bacchus (Roman God of Agriculture, Wine, and Fertility) and Ariadne
(Immortal wife of wine God Dionysos), for the sake of their story before related
to one another, or rather because they happened to return in time for gathering
all of the sprouted crops. The women, whom they call Deipnopherae, or supper
earnings, are taken into these ceremonies to help during the sacrifice. The
sacrifice is in remembrance of the mothers of the young men and virgins who
the lot fell, for they continued to bring bread and meat to their children.
The women then went on to tell their sons and daughters many old stories and
legacies of the men before them to help encourage them before going into danger. The custom still exists today where they tell of old stories and myths.
For these old myths and stories, we are indebted to the history of Demon where a
place was chosen out. A temple that was brought into Theseus attention, and
those families out of whom the tribute of the fallen youth was gathered were
appointed to pay tax to the temple for sacrifices to him. The house of
Phytalidse ( I Googled this term, but nothing came up so I suggest that it is a
name of a well-known Greek) had the job to oversee these sacrifices while
Theseus doing them that honor to make amends and repay the families for their
losses and hospitality. After the death of his father, Egeus formed a brilliant
design that gathered all the inhabitants of Attica into one space. With his
design it made everyone come together for unity and equality as before they
lived scattered. It was not an easy task for Egeus to assemble everyone,
because many did not like the idea of living together. The upper class and the
lower class often got into many brawls, in which Egeus tried to resolve by
visiting each and every tribe. By Egeus visiting each tribe individually it
helped persuade the tribes to listen to his advice. To ease all the tension,
Egeus promised the people of great power a commonwealth that is fair to all.
Egeus told them that he would only be their commander in war, protector of their
laws and that everything would be distributed equally and fairly. By doing so,
half of them higher agreed to his proposal. The other half, fearing his power,
chose to be persuaded rather than forced into a compliance with him. Egeus then
went on to all the state house's, council halls, and other offices of authority
to create one common state house. In addition, he also built a council hall on
the upper side of town and named the whole state Athens. To celebrate, Egeus
declared a common feast and sacrifice, which he called Panathenaea (sacrifice of
all the united Athenians). Afterwards, he also added another sacrifice called
Metoecia (oi Feast of Migration), which is celebrated on the sixteenth day of
Hecatombseon (sacrifice to the Gods of 100 cattle). One of his final acts
included laying down the groundwork of his regal power and proceeded to order a
commonwealth as promised to the people of great power. He seeked advice from the
Gods before declaring the great work into submission.
